# signalk-collision-detection

Signalk web application for assessing the risk of potential collisions for a vessel.

# Introduction

The aim of this plugin is to enable a user of the signalk platform to receive
potential risks of collision from the server. The plugin interfaces with the
signalk data model to obtain relevant information that is exposed of the own
vessel and others identified by sensors and receivers like AIS.

# Theory overview

The plugin represents the current vessel and nearby vessels as points,
which are a pair of longitude and latitude values representing a unique
location. Using Closest Point of Approach(CPA) algorithm all nearby vessels
will be evaluated to determine a particular risk assessment ***TBD***.

# Software Design Overview

In this repository two examples are provided ClientCore and
SignalkCore. These serve as interfaces to a core service like signalk
which enable methods or endpoints that provide sensor information that
is relevant or required by the higher level algorithms which interface with
only methods exposed by the core interface API. This enables easier portability
and platform independency.

# Project Structure

***Has to be updated***

```Shell
.
├── examples
├── LICENSE
├── node_modules
├── package-lock.json
├── package.json
├── public_src # Template directory for HTML and css rendering
│   └── index.html
├── README.md
├── src # Source files for plugin and webapp frontend content
│   ├── components
│   │   └── AppPanel.js
│   └── index.js # Plugin related content
│   └── bootstrap.js # Used to render the frontend on client-side
└── webpack.config.js # Webpack configurations
```

# Build Instructions

## package manager

***TBD***

## Local Build

If you wish to install and develop on top of this project you may wish to
use a local build.
First you need to clone the repository on your local machine.
This can be done by the following command:

```Shell
git clone git@github.com:matas-noreika/signalk-collision-detection.git
```

In order to view the package you must use a npm symlink it can be done by the following:

```Shell
npm link # run this in the project directory
cd ~/.signalk # cd to signalk server
npm link signalk-collision-detection # adds symlink to project directory
```

The project has to be bundled and transpiled which can be done using two
available commands:
`npm run build` or `npm run dev`. The Difference is the level bundling
build generates a production bundle that can be distributed. dev
generates a local testable copy not suitable for sharing.

Once bundled you will find a `public/` directory from which you can
open the `index.html` to view the AppPanel component.
**MacOS users may use `open index.html`**

# Next Steps

- [ ] Implement a potential threat detection system using signalk data model.
- [ ] Implement an algorithm to determine if a potential collision is to occur
within the vessels current movement direction.
- [ ] ***TBD***

# Dev notes

- The web app uses webpack for bundling and transpiling to ES5.
- The frontend framework uses react as per the documentation provided on signalk.
- Signalk-server expects a file names remoteEntry.js for webapp frontend.
- signalk-server expects react and react-dom as shared libraries under the
exposed module federation using `{singleton: true, requiredVersion: false}`.

If you are using not sensors to update self position use the following json
data in data fiddler to write some latitude and longitude information.

```shell
{
  "context": "vessels.self",
  "updates": [
    {
      "source": { "label": "GPS_1" },
      "timestamp": "2026-03-05T12:00:00.000Z",
      "values": [
        { "path": "navigation.position", "value": { "longitude": 123.456, "latitude": 65.432 } },
        { "path": "navigation.speedOverGround", "value": 5.2 }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## AppPanel client and server preview

At the time of developing this repository the resources and
documentation regarding embeddable webapps on signalk is very poor.
I have accomplished a nice feature that may enable other developers
to render their components regardless of if they are on the signalk
server or rendering from the index.html source. This can be particularly
useful if a developer wishes to create a portable codebase which can also
seamlessly be integrated with signalk. This is still a topic to explore but
has a great potential in the available options not only limited to signalk.

Originally I experienced difficultly due to eager consumption. This is when
an asynchronously loaded module loads before the shared dependencies like
react.
[webpack solution](https://webpack.js.org/concepts/module-federation/#uncaught-error-shared-module-is-not-available-for-eager-consumption)
Using the solution provided on the webpack documentation I was able to load
the contents using an index.html generated by the HTMLPlugin from webpack.

# Documentation

[React Legacy API](https://react.dev/reference/react/legacy)
[Signalk documentation](https://demo.signalk.org/documentation/index.html)
